---
layout: post
title: "Not Missing 'Mad Men'"
date: 2015-05-19
categories:
---
So Mad Men is done. I'm glad. I didn't think the show was nearly [as good as others did](http://www.newyorker.com/culture/cultural-comment/the-original-resonant-existentially-brilliant-mad-men-finale). I started
becoming increasingly bored around season 3 or 4. Now I don't have to think about it.

But this really isn't about Mad Men, but rather time and entertainment. I watch very little of anything. What I
do watch (usually a couple hours per week, tops), has for a long time been a mix of movies and TV series. I've seen some really
excellent TV in the past few years (The Wire, The Shield, Breaking Bad, Black Mirror, Sherlock, The Fall). But I've also started to question the
ROI of TV, even for the good shows.

When I finish a show like The Shield I think, "Wow, what a great show, that was really worth it." And then I finish a movie like The Separation and thing, "Wow, what a great show, that was really worth it". In both cases my enjoyment and satisfaction at the time is about the same. But then I start doing math:

The Shield 66 hours (88 episodes)
A Separation 2 hours

I could have watched 33 movies during the time spent watching the shield. So how do the experiences compare over that time? I think I overly inflate the quality of TV episodes in retrospect. If the show was good, the whole lots gets a good grade. But if I think back to stupid subplots that went no where and irritating characters that hung around for a season, then I start to recall the tiresome stretches. There are plenty of boring movies too, no matter how hard I tried to mine ratings
and recommendations to avoid them. But some key difference exist that suggest movies are a better choice.

* A movie offers a relatively new experience, as compared to the next episode in a TV series.
* Movies are usually structured to resolve, not leave one salivating for the next episdoe
* There is no series investment (i.e. my yawning through three seasons of Mad Men because I'd already watched the previous four).

To be fair, movies also require a longer continuous chunk of time (since breaking a movie in half is a bit icky). They also require more mental energy to lock on to the new characters and plot. When I'm exhausted and just want some relaxation or distraction, a TV show is often desireable.

So?
I'm happy Mad Men is done, and I'll be happy when House of Cards. At that point I'll be TV debt free. I've already started watching more movies, though it seems like TV series are nearly unavoidable when choosing what next to watch. I've not written off TV, but I'm going to cautious before signing up for more long-running shows.

